Hello and welcome to another walkthrough for Django for everybody. In this
particular walkthrough we're going to play with the favicon and so the favicon
is a special little icon that shows up at your root slash favicon dot ICO.
There's a whole series of favicons but this is sort of the original classic one
and you should be able to see it and it's also what happens in your bookmarks
or your little tabs and so it's kind of a fun little way to brand your site and
if you've been grabbing my code you have got a favicon sitting here in Django's
home static favicon dot ICO and if you look at urls.py down later it adds a
path using the static file server and it sort of goes to the base directory of
the of the Django application that's home static and then if there's a path
that matches this is the path that matches then this is the file that it
looks up and then that serves up the contents of that file at favicon dot ICO
now what you want to probably do is make your own favicon so let's go ahead and
make our own favicon here is a favicon converter and let's go ahead and grab a
file let's see it's a ciger going to make a little ciger icon instead and so
I did it it converted it to an icon see what we got here and I'm going to
download a zip file with a bunch of icons and it'll go into my downloads so
here it came into my downloads it's already downloaded it and that is an
icon and so an icon is a special kind of an image and so now what I'm going to do
is I'm going to go into here and I'm going to upload and overwrite this with
a new file and so here we're going to upload that favicon and I believe it's
up to uploaded right this second now here's a weird thing now I should be
able to go here and I should be able to press refresh I don't think reloading my
application is going to make much difference at this point but icons are
heavily cached by the browser so one thing to do is just I didn't mean to
start that didn't mean to start Camtasia sorry didn't mean to start that so I can go
here in a different browser and I can see icon or I can add a get parameter
and then I can see that I count x equals 3 and now I can see the icon so it
so if you come here and you press refresh what you'll find is these icons
are heavily cached and that's just because you don't want to overload the
server getting an icon in every page so to really do this right the way to force
the cache and we've seen this like in JSON you can add a get parameter x equals
42 and that basically says it's going to ignore this and it's just going to get
because that's a query parameter it's not part of the path and it's going to
load the new icon so it might take a while before you're going to see that
icon show up and so don't feel too bad if you can do this thing where you go
directly and you add this question mark you should be able to see your brand new
icon and then later or maybe if you run with a different browser but if you've
used a different browser and it's got a cached icon away it goes and you can go
Google how to clear the favicon on my browser and you'll find it's not trivial
so this is the way that I do it I just add a get parameter and then that does it
so I hope this little favicon walkthrough was helpful to you cheers